This year is boosting a win rate of 90%. 90% on short trades and 90% on long trades. A balance draw down of 5% equity draw down of 6% over a period of a year and a half. But look at the amount of trades. 680,000 trades in just over 500 days. And the profit, this is where it gets crazy. Don't kill me over it, but we're starting with a balance of €1,000 and we're ending with 1.5 billion. Yeah, I know. It's insane. This EA works on a one minute chart and the logic of the year is very simple. We have two stop orders on either side of the price at a fixed distance. If the price does not move quickly and fill them, then they are modified to keep the distance from the price. And if one of them is filled and the filled position goes into profit, then the stop loss is moved to trail very aggressively and a new stop order is placed in the same direction. So we can scale in if the price continues to go in the same direction. the scaling in and the trailing continues until the trailing stop loss is hit. Now, these modifications of a stop orders and quick trailing of the stop- loss means that there are going to be a constant barrage of orders and modifications sent to the broker. And obviously, they're not going to like that. They don't want their servers to crash. So, within a very short amount of time, you will get warnings and if you don't manage it properly, you're probably going to get banned. But if you do manage the trading session efficiently and stop the EA, let's say in 10 or 15 minutes, it has the potential to make 2 1/2% in just 10 minutes. In my forward demo test, which I broadcast live on the channel, the thing made 3% in under 12 minutes. We'll run the back test on Dow Jones. Selecting a 1 minute time frame is starting Jan 2024 until today. I'm running it on every tick and with a €1,000 starting balance. I know real dicks. Your broker said they're real. They are real. On settings, I'm going to go with default. For time duration, in real life, you cannot run this EA for more than 10 minutes a day or your broker will be on your tail. For testing, I'm going to run it from 1600 hours to 1700 hours to simulate trading at New York Open. I've added this functionality of lot size calculation. So, I'm going to go with 2% risk on equity. Let's start. Now there's not much to say due to a very tight stop loss. There is no running draw down and the gear just goes up and up. Now obviously in the back test there is no slippage and execution delay. So take this with a grain of salt or in fact with a full 1 kilog bag of salt. And don't come after me with your fork and torches. My biggest problem with back testing this year is the execution delays and slippages. Without those, there is no way of telling what will actually happen in the real world. And in back test, you will get results like these. Starting with €1,000, ending with $1.4 billion. In real world, you will probably get 1 billion calls from your broker. Now, of course, this back test is plain stupid, but with a bit of work and modifications, this EA could potentially work. There are four key settings that change the behavior of the EA. Let's say the spread on US30 is $1. Then order distance which determines how far the orders are placed. So a value of four times the spread equals $4. Theta is a fancy name for the max allowed order distance point. So 7 will mean 7 * the spread of $1 equals $7. Stop is the initial stop-loss again times spread. So 10 equals 10 * 1 = $10. And lastly the cost. Fancy name again for how much the trade needs to be in profit before the trailing starts. So four equals 4 * 1 = $4. Now first thing first, this is not my personally coded EA. A friend of mine shared it with me. The course that I got were in MT4 format and very obscure, but I did run one forward demo test with it which I broadcast live on the channel. Now what you can see in this demo test is that the EA is performing extremely quickly. It is a high frequency EA and it is doing what it is supposed to do. Opening up the trades really quickly and as soon as they get into profit trail the stop loss very aggressively and close them. We're going to go through all of the codes. So by the end of the video you will be fully able to code it yourself. So with no more shenanigans, let's start coding. I have moved on to a new channel by the name of Mr. Cafrey where I'm able to post more videos than I can on a on a faceless channel which is no shenanigan. So I will be posting coding videos if I make any but the rest of the videos I wouldn't be able to post them here. Probably better to move on to Mr. Caffrey channel as that is going to be my main channel going forward. Yeah. So like always we're going to start in meta editor and I'm going to create another folder under this folder strategy from internet. You can you can decide where you want to make your folder and I'm going to call it high frequency here. Now within that folder I'm going to create an expert advisor and let's call it high frequency EA cleaned up by Mr. Caprey and we start with the opening template. I'll clean it up. So we end up with these three functions. Now all of the global variables are going to go in this place. Then all of the codes which are going to run on initialization of the EA are going to be here. Then on de initialization so when you remove it are going to be run here and all the codes here are going to be run on every tick which basically means whenever there is a new price data arriving into MQL all of the codes here are going to run and then any special function we're going to write at the bottom and then we're going to call them from whichever function do we want to call it from let's start with the variables the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to include this trade file from this include folder include food trade trade.mq which is a file which comes with MQL with all of these codes pre-written so that we can do trading operations. Now within that I'm going to assign the class C trade to a variable by the name trade and this one is going to be used to do buying and selling operations. Position info I'm assigning it to position info variable which is going to be used to get information on open positions. Then see order info class to order info so that we can get information on the orders which are currently placed. Then see history order info to a his info variable which is we're going to use to get information on the historical deals and orders. And then the see deal info which I'm storing which I'm linking to a variable by the deal info. So all the deals information we can get. Then I'm going to be giving the user an option to select whether they want to use fixed lots or as a percentage of balance, equity or free margin. So I need to create that drop-down menu. So I'm creating an enum and calling that enum enum lot type and there I'm giving four different values which I can then use to create a drop-down. You will see it in a minute. Then let's start with the general settings. So I'm creating an input group. So we have a header as general settings and there I'm asking for the input magic number and what's the slippage. Then on the time settings I'm going to give the user an ability to choose which start hour and end hour they want. But later on in modifications videos, we're going to change it and provide hours and minutes as well. So that you can select between let's say 4:00 until 410 in the evening. But I'm starting with this one because I would rather that during the testing phase you guys test it while you are there. the so the year can start at a fixed time but then you monitor it during the next 5 10 minutes to see how many trades and intervene if there are too many trades or if the years is starting to go into losses. So at this point I'm leaving it manual the ending time but just for the default I'm going to set it to 1700 hours so it can run for 1 hour but you're going to get broker warning long before an hour is over. Then for the order modification, we're going to create a variable by the name seconds and we're going to set it to 60, which should be the same as whatever time frame we're applying this to. So on a 1 minute chart, 60 seconds. And now we're going to use this enum that we created here to get user input on money management. So the first thing is what type of lot do you want? And there if I say lot type equals zero and there I'm creating a variable but assigning it this enum so that it has drop- down values of this this this and this and then if you choose fixed lots then in that case we want to know what is your fixed loss and if they choose one of these as a percentage of balance equity or free margin then I want to the user to provide what is the percentage value and let's just start with I don't know 0.5% %. Now if I compile and I already have two errors and this is the other thing which I continuously say compile after every two or three lines. So as soon as the error happens you know where the error has happened. So this is 0.5%. I have put the percent sign. I cannot. So it's 0.5 and we're going to use it as a percentage. So now if I compile I'm fine. And now if I go back to MetaTrader, this EA has now been created high frequency EA by Mr. Caffrey. And if I go to input now, you can see that these are the general settings and the variables that we have created so far. And here in the type of lord size calculation, here is that drop-down that we created here. So the way to get the drop-down is to create an enum and then assign that enum to the variable that you're going to show. And then after this we're going to get trade settings in points. And here we have five variables. The delta which is going to be used as distance in points of how far the order should be placed from the price. And this is going to be multiplied with the spread. So 0.5 means 0.5 multiplied by whatever is the spread. And this is because if you want to use it on Bitcoin versus something else versus something else, uh the spreads are going to be very different. So in order to have consistency of how we're trading, so I'm linking it to a delta variable of 0.5 multiplied by the spread. So whatever is the spread on that particular pair or asset, half of that is going to be used to place orders and then the max distance. So what is the max that we're going to allow for the stop orders to be placed? And if you say seven, you can say five, you can say 10, but that is the maximum multiplied with the spread. That is the maximum that you can place the orders at. And this is just to safeguard against stupid stop orders which are placed like I don't know very far away from the price. And then the stop is the initial stop. Once again the 10 is going to be multiplied with the spreads because we want to apply it across different pairs and different pairs have different spreads. So it's 10 times whatever is the current spread. Then max trailing is when does the trading start and that again is going to be multiplied with the spread for the same reason. And then the max spread I'm putting a a very big value because I don't want to limit the max spread but you can say it's like okay well if the max spread is this much then I don't want to be trading and you can set it later down in the logic of the year as well. So these are the variables that I'm going to use at this point in time. This is what I have uploaded in the store at this point in time. I will be trying this EA in the next weeks and if I find something that I want to modify, I will come back make another video on those modifications and I will update whatever is there in the store as well with those modification. But at this point in time, I want to start with the base code as I got it from the friend and then later on see what modifications I want to make. And if you guys make modifications or or or change some settings up or down which work or which have a better result, please do share so that we can share it among the community and everybody can benefit. Okay. And then we're going to go ahead and create a lot of variables which we are not asking the user to provide input but these are the variables that we're going to use. I'll go in a group of five. So we are creating these double variables and this integer variable which is going to be a tick counter. Then the next five which are going to be about the trailing stop and the account leverage value so that we can check. Then these ones for lot size calculations. Then more to check is stuff on broker freeze levels and broker stop levels and current spreads and average spreads. Then an EA mode flag whether or not the trading is allowed. Then a spread array size where we're going to get the array size later on. Then a few variables to calculate the commission per pip from historical deals. Then a spread multiplier which is only going to be there to do some safeguard against zero values or negative values. Then these five for trading stop management and order placement and whether or not the there is trading which is allowed. Then another five to check for whether or not sell orders are allowed, is the spread acceptable and those kind of things. and these five for the order modification. So, what's the current stop-loss? Uh what was the last buy order time and those kind of variables. And in the end, we're going to be storing when we're sending the sell orders, what's the time of that sell order. So, here and here. And then in the end, we're going to use a spread history as an array. So, where we can store more than one value at one time. So these are all of the global variables that we're going to use during the creation of the EA. Okay. Then going back up, I will assign all of them a value as well. So let's start with order check frequency and I'm going to assign it a value of two. Default is spread period I'm going to assign a value of 30. Then order modification factor I'm going to assign it a value of three. minimum order distance to 0.5 and max trailing limit to 7.5 and then at the bottom the spread calculation method is going to be one. The rest of the variables are all zero to start with. And I'm going to just copy paste this everywhere. For the bool functions you can either type false or you can also assign it a value of zero which is basically false as well. So equals false equals false and then zero here zero here zero here. This is a string. So let's give it a blank or let's give it Mr. Cap free false then so order time zero enable trading also false and I'll leave the array as it is so it's not initialized So then we go on to the initialization function and the very first thing which I always do I set the magic number to the C trade class by saying trade dot set expert magic number input magic number and then I also remove the grid because I do not like to see the grid on the chart. If I compile now I don't have any errors so far. So I can continue. Then the first thing I'm going to check is the minimum order distance that the user has put is bigger than the delta then delta x is equals to minimum order distance plus 0.1 and then in the same logic if max trailing variable that the user has provided is bigger than the max trailing limit then we want to set it to max trailing limit by saying it equals max trailing plus 0.1 and then if the order modification factor is less than one then we say that the order modification factor is one and then just to make sure on initialization we reset the tick counter to zero on initialization and price to paper ratio to zero. Even though we are creating here as zero already but this just an additional step as a precaution and then the base trailing stop becomes trailing stop buffer which is basically the same and then the increment of the stop equals to the trailing stop threshold and then on account leverage values we're getting this value from the broker by saying account info integer and getting the account leverage value. Now I cannot fully explain the logic of doing it in this way. This is the way that the codes were written by the original coder. So I'm just following his logic and later on when I'll share the modifications then I'll try to clean up the the logic of the EA flow as well. But for that I need to run the test for a while so that I can understand fully why is he doing what he's doing. Then we also get the lot step size from the broker. The max lot size that the broker allows. We get that value and store it into this. Then the minimum lot size that the broker allows on that symbol and the margin per minimum lot is like what is the initial margin for that minimum lot size and then the minimum stop distance we're currently setting it to zero. Then we say then we get the value of the broker stop level. So how far can how far is it allowed to place a stop order minimum. we get that value and then if that value is greater than zero then we know that broker has a limit then in that case the minimum stop distance becomes whatever the broker has or whatever the broker level is plus one point just to provide a little bit of a buffer and then similarly for minimum freeze distance we're going to start with setting it to zero and then we're going to check the broker freeze level by using the symbol info integers sending the symbol value and getting the symbol trade freeze level. And if that is greater than zero, then we know that the broker has a freeze level and in that case we assign the minimum freeze distance to the broker fees level plus one point. So putting a small bit of buffer there. Now just as a precaution because we are changing these values but the user might not be able to see them that this is happening in the background. Then if the broker stop level is bigger than zero or the broker freeze level is bigger than zero meaning that we have now changed what the user has done then in that case instead of printing because nobody checks the journals let's comment it so that on the chart itself it does give a warning that the broker is not suitable the stop level is greater than zero. Let me compile. Everything is fine until now. So we can proceed. Then I'm going to get the ask and bid values by using the symbol info double sending the symbol value and asking for ask and bid and storing them in ask and bid variables and then saying that the current spread is equal to ask minus the bid and then normalize it to level number of digits and the average spread is also equal to the current spread. So we start populating the value of the average spread using the current spread value as a baseline and then the the author is checking that if the EMA flag is equals to zero that's the value that he's setting here at the top here as zero. So he's not giving it to the user to define but it is flexible. So in the code you can change it. So if that value is zero then use the default spread period otherwise use three. So if that is not zero so if you have changed this value from 0 to 1 or something else then use the value of three. I first need to run the EA in a test environment to see how the logic flows. Before that I'm just sticking to what the original author has written and only cleaning it up and sharing it. We'll make the modifications later. And then we resize the array spread history array to whatever is the value here. So either it's default or it's three. So whatever is the value that comes out of this function, that is the value that we set to the size of the spread history array where we're going to store all of the historical data. And then as the last step, we're going to store the value of the max allows spread by using the value that the user has provided us here and converting it to points and storing it into the v variable max allowed spread and normalizing it to the level of digits. Then we're going to hide all the indicators which are going to be on the chart. I don't suppose that there is any indicator which is here but this probably is just general practice that before you close the initialization hide all the indicators. So this is it for the initialization function and then we move on to the on tick function where all of the operations on every time a new price data arrives are going to happen. We start by creating these new variables which are only going to be used within the on tick function. So we are not defining them on a global level but we are defining them and assigning the values here. All these variables are going to be used only within the on tick function. They are not accessible to other functions. And then the first thing we do is we increase the value of the tick counter by one. So on the initialization it was zero. So as soon as the first tick arrive the tick counter is going to be one and then two and then so on and so forth. And then we start by assigning a value of per pip per lot size. How much is the commission plus a spread value? Because if you're applying it on a standard account, it's simple. But if you are doing it on a commission account, then the EA needs to know that it has moved into profit including the commission that you have paid. So we're going to create that. So we start with at if the price to pay ratio equals zero. So only at the start when it's zero, this function is going to be run. But after that because it's going to already be populated. So we're not going to run the function every time. So we start by saying that if it is zero, select the history all of the deals and every information in the history. Select it from time zero until the current time. So get all of the history. And then we're going to loop through all of these history items by going i equals to history whatever deal total which we have gotten minus one because because the history deal info array that comes back it starts at a zero value. So then we say zero to as long as the i is greater than or equal to zero and every time decrease the value of i by one on every iteration. So we start with let's say if there are 30 deals then we start with 29 and then 28 then 287 26 25 24. So loop through by index get the ticket number of whatever is the current deal and if the ticket is was zero then just exit but if ticket is not zero then there is an order or there is a history deal then in that case check that the symbol equals the deal symbol and the profit is not zero. So it wasn't a trade that just opened and closed and the deal entry equ is not equal to deal entry out. And then we create a variable. I'm calling it position ID by sending the ticket number and getting the position ID. If it turns out to be zero, that means just continue because it's a uh well we didn't really get anything. But if it is not then the entry price is going to be get the history deal info by sending the position ID and getting the deal price. Then the exit price is going to be based on ticket profit is going to be get the history by sending the ticket and getting the deal profit and the commission equals ticket and the deal commission. So this is how we get the commission value. So we get all of this information and then if exit price is not equal to entry price there is a bit of movement between the opening price and the closing price then we can calculate the price to pay ratio by saying profit divided by exit price minus the entry price. And because exit price minus the entry price for uh a sell trade is going to be a negative value. So that's going to return a negative profit. So we're going to use the faps function. So floating absolute function which is going to return the value in positive no matter what. So if it's minus 4.2 it will become plus 4.2. If it's plus 4.2 it will remain 4.2. And then the commission per pip is going to be commission divided by price to pay ratio that we've gotten here. And we're using a minus sign because the commission is in minus but we want a positive value. And let's see if all of our brackets match. They don't. So I'm missing the if opening and if I put the if opening now the balance now the parentheses are balancing. Once we have the values of commission per pip and price to pay ratio I'm going to get more information which I'm going to need later. So I'm getting the ask value and the bid value by using the symbol info double sending the symbol value and asking for the symbol ask and symbol bid value. And then we're going to update the historical spread values. So, we're going to create a new variable by the name is spread, new spread. And that's going to be ask minus the bid normalized to the number of digits. And then we're going to move the the array that we already have by one place left. So, it's going to delete the oldest value and it's going to make a space for the next value. So, this is what we're saying here. Array size is minus one and move it by one. It started at started at zero and increment of one. So move the whole array to one place left. So if it was 2, 3 and 5, now two is going to be dropped and it's going to be three and five. And then we're going to add the value of the new area which has been created to new spread. So whatever is this this area the last digit which has been dropped. So by moving it left by one place now there is an empty space and that is where we're going to and that is where we're going to store the value of the new spread that we've just calculated. And then we can calculate the average spread. So we start with a sum of zero and then we loop through this array spread size array uh every time going 1 ++ and then we're adding the value of whatever is stored in the i position to the sum. So if there are three then it's going to be adding 1 2 and three the all three positions into the sum. So then we get the cumulative and then we can get the average spread by dividing the sum that we got from the spread array by the total number of entries in that array. So we get the average spread and then from there this is the average spread currently. Then we go that the average spread is take the spread multiplier by points. So that is 0 multiply by minus one by points. So it's basically zero. And then the current spread plus commission per pip. Whatever is the current spread plus commission per pip. That is the average spread because that is the amount of commission that you're going to pay on every pip. And this is the current spread. So that gives you a total spread no matter whether you're on commission based account or you are on a standard account. And now we store it into the average spread. And we're using the math max. So that this is zero and this is a value. So that if this for some reason returns a negative value then this is why we have this math max function to check versus a zero value that the negative value and the that if we have a negative value and a zero value then the zero value is going to go to average spread rather than negative value. Then to prepare for our orders, we're going to create order adjusted adjusted order distance and that will be the math max of the average spread that we have calculated times delta. So if you remember we said here that this is the order distance but that is going to be multiplied by a spreads so that whether you're applying it on gold or bitcoin it is consistent versus whatever is the minimum stop distance that we got from from the broker plus one point to create a buffer. So between these two, whichever one is bigger, that's the one that we put on the order distance. And then the minimum order modification point. So when do we start to trail? That's going to depend on minimum order distance. Again, time with the average spread because we're calculating everything in spread terms and versus whatever we got from the broker plus one point above. So that's going to be stored in minimum order modification. And then we're going to calculate the trading stop-loss values. So the trailing stop loss is going to become active when you multiply average spread times the max [Music] trailing this the start of the initialization or the start of the trailing stop. So average spread times that that is the time when we're going to start when the trailing stop is going to become active. The trailing stop max value is whatever is the trailing limit that we have set above times the spread. And then the max or replacement distance equals the max distance time the average spread. Once again max distance is this the theta which is another way of saying that this is the maximum stop order above it. Please do not place the stop order. So that is the maximum and then the order placement step which is equals to whatever is the minimum order modification from here divided by the modification factor which is the value here of three. So divided by three. So whatever is the minimum order modification divided by three and that is our order placement step. And then the calculated lot stop is whatever is the stop defined by the user multiplied by the average spread versus the minimum stop distance that the broker is allowing. So out of these two, whichever one is bigger, that's going to be our calculated initial stop-loss. And then we create a function to see how many trades are currently open. So again, for it's a for loop where we're starting with a position total. So if there are four positions open, then we're starting at a point of three. It's position total minus one because this I is going to go from 0 1 2 and three. For loops run that way and then every iteration we're going to reduce the value of i by one. So it's going to be 4 3 2 1 and zero. And as long as it is above or equal to zero we're going to do the iteration. So we're going to select that position. Select by index I. So whatever is the index right now get the position symbol and get the position magic number and compare it versus the current chart. So if the position info symbol is equals our symbol and the magic number is our magic number then we know this is a trade placed by this year on the current chart. Then we get the value of price lots and stop-loss by using the position info variable which is assigned to the same position info trade class. We get these values and then we check if it's a buy type then we increase the the amount of how many buys are currently open by one. We start this by saying it's zero. And now we're going through this loop to see how many are actually open. So we find out okay if it's a buy type then increase that by one. And then if the stop loss is equal to zero or the stop loss is greater than zero but the stop loss is less than price then increase the total buy count by one as well. The current buy stop-loss equals to the stop- loss which we got. And then the buy order price sum is add to whatever however many iteration we're going to go through. We're starting with a value of zero but for every order multiply the price times lot and add it to this variable. And then they order some lot meaning how many lots are there in total is going to be add the lots every time you do the iteration. And then if the price is less than the lowest buy price then the lowest buy price equals price. And then if it's a sell type then we start by saying well the increase the counter of the open cell count by one. And then the same logic if the stop loss is zero for some stupid reason some error or if it is greater than zero but the the stop loss is above the price for the cell then we increase the total sell counter by one. We're starting at zero. So through this iteration we're going to count one more. Set the current stop loss to stop loss. And the same way the price sum is equal to whatever is the price times lot and add it. And what is the lot size sum is add all of the lots and then if the price is greater than the highest sell price which in the beginning is zero then set the highest sell price as price. So we are so we in the end we are populating all of these variables that we have defined and started and initiated here with certain values so that we can use them later. So these were for positions. So in the same way we will also check the orders. So we say if we loop through all of the order totals we check whether the order symbol is our symbol and order magic is our magic then if it's a buy stop then we increase the value of the pending buy count by one and total buy count by one as well. So this this is the difference between the total buy count and open by count. The open buy count will only include positions which are open while the total buy count is going to include positions but also the orders and same goes for the seller stop. If there is a sell stop then increase the pending sell count by one and also the sell total sell count by one as well. So the total sell count in the end is going to have all of the sell positions which are open but also all of the sell orders which are there on the bro on the broker server. And now that we have all of these values, we can now proceed to modifications of the orders and the modification of the positions and creating the orders. But before we go there, we're going to if the buy order sum lot that we calculated here is greater than zero. So there is a lot size there. Then the average buyer price is going to be whatever is the sum price divided by the buy order sum lot. So before we were adding up the price times the lots into that variable. if into this variable and we were accumulating all the lot sizes into this variable. So this divided by this is going to give us the average buy price and same for the average sell price. And lastly we're going to create a variable broker time as an MQL datetime format so that we can use the day and the so we can use it as a drop down. So for example here if you say broker time then you can get the day day of the week hour minute. So it gives you all of that structure. So we're going to create that variable and we're going to store the current time into this broker variable. So now we can break up the current time into hours and days and whatnot. So let's start with processing the pending orders. So orders which are already there on the server and we say loop through all of the orders exactly the same way. So orders total minus one. Every time in the iteration go down one and as long as it is more than zero or equals to zero continue the loop. Then exactly in the same way as before we select by index and if it is not selected if it's not successful then continue meaning exit the function. But if it is selected then we check that the order info symbol the current order which is selected is our symbol and the magic number is our magic number and if it is not then continue meaning exit the function because that's not our order but if the above are true so it is our order then in that case get the ticket number store it into ticket get the type of the order store it into type get the open price stop loss take profit and current volume and store it into these variables. that we're creating here. And then we're going to check that if this order has the type as order type by stop. So it's a buy stop which is pending on the on the server. Then we check for the start hour and the end hour by saying by creating a bool variable. So it's either true or false that if the broker time dot hour so current time this time current time is greater than the start hour and is less than the end hour then we are in the trading range. So in that case the allow trade is true and we check that if the average spread is greater than the max allowed or this allow trade is not coming back to be true in that case we are outside the range of the time or the spreads are bigger than the max allowed in that case delete the order and then continue. So we're deleting all of the orders once the time limit is finished or the spreads become bigger than what we have allowed as max allowed spread. Then we check the time difference between the current time and the last buy order and we will save this. So initially it's going to be zero. So the current time is going to be definitely bigger or the time difference is going to be massive. But when we will place an order or we will modify an order, we will change the value of this so that the next time we can store the value of the current time and versus this biased last time we we placed the order into this variable. So we know exactly how much time has elapsed. Then I'm creating another bool function which is needs modification. So it's going to store the value of either true or false and that will depend on this. So if the time difference is greater than seconds, the user defined variable here of 60 seconds. Now the time is greater than the last time we placed the order by more than 60 seconds. And then the tick counter divided by the order frequency is returning a rounded number. That's what this function does. This basically divides it the tick counter by the order frequency check frequency which we put as two up here. So this is two and the tick counter is adding the tick the amount of ticks that are arriving every time there is a new tick. So let's suppose if the tick counter starts it's one and divided by the account order check divided by the order check frequency which is two it's going to be 0.5 and the last digit or the digit after the decimal is five so that's not zero but if it is two the second tick arrives it's two and it's divided by this so it's going to be 1.0 zero. So the last digit is zero after the decimal. So then it's going to be zero. So whatever is the remainder after the if you have done those divisions you have the the thing here and then you have the divider here but then on the top you get the remainder or at the bottom you get the remainder. So this returns the remainder value. So if it is zero that means that it is a multiple of that order frequency check. So if the order frequency check is two that means tick one is going to be ignored but tick two is going to be used then tick three is going to be ignored then tick four is going to be used and say for example if the order frequency check was five then take one is going to be ignored take 2 three is take 2 3 and four are going to be ignored because they are always going to give a remainder but take five is going to be used because 5ID 5 is exact one or 10 / 5 is exact two so there is no remainder then the next one that we check is that the open buy count is less than one. So there is no open position and the open price is less than our order modification. So up earlier we we calculated what our order modification needs to be. So if we started with zero but here we were putting in the value of minimum in between the average spread times whatever the user has defined and the minimum freeze level that is allowed by the broker. So in between the two whichever one is the bigger one and that is the one that we are now using here by saying that if it is smaller than that if the open price minus the the current price if the open price minus the current ask is less than the order modification and the order by count is less than one then it's true or the open price minus the ask price is less than the order placement step that we calculated above or the open price minus the current price is greater than the max order placement distance then in all of those cases this needs modification becomes true and if it is true by saying if needs modification you can also say if needs modification equals true. So if needs modification equals true then in that case the distance we're creating a a variable distance and we're storing the value of adjusted order distance into that what we calculated here based on the input provided by the user and then if the open buy account meaning the open positions is greater than zero Then you divide the distance by the order order modification factor and then the distance becomes the math max. So whichever is the bigger value between the distance and the minimum stop distance required by the broker. Then we get the modified price by getting the ask value plus the distance that we have calculated here and normalizing it to digits. And the modified stop-loss is going to become if there is more than zero buy count then it's going to be current buy stop loss otherwise it's going to be the modified price minus the calculated stop-loss and then if the or if the currently open positions is zero or the modified price is greater than the average price and the modified price is not equal to the open price of the order and the open price minus the current ask value is greater than the minimum freeze distance because that's what the broker is going to require for the stop order changes then in that case we modify the order by sending the ticket number with the modified price and with the modified stop-loss and with the TP which we have gotten here and zero for the what type of order it is and no expiration and we say that the last order buy point or the last buy order time equals current time. So we store the value that now we have changed the order on buy. So that was for the buy stop. So I need to close this here. [Music] closing this if loop and then we do exactly the same thing for the sell stop. So we go we've done already this the buy stop pending buy stop and if it is not that then check if the type of the order which is on the server is sell stop and then do exactly the same thing. So check that the current time hour is greater than the start hour and less than the end hour. So it is within the trading allowed time and check for the spread and check that the this is turning back to be true and if it is not turning to be true. So meaning that we are currently outside of the normal hours and or the or the average spread is bigger than the max allowed then in that case order delete by sending the tickets. Otherwise, once again, store the difference between the last time a sell order was played with versus the current time. And then check for the need modification that the time difference is bigger than what the user has selected as 60 seconds. That the tick counter is a multiple of the order frequency. Check. And that the open cell count is less than one. So, it's zero. There is no currently there's no open position. And the symbol info double and the bid price is and the bid price minus the open price of the order is less than the order modification uh minimum order modification and the bid price minus the open price of our current order is less than the order placement step and the max order placement distance. If all of those are true, then we go ahead and we say if that is true, then once again distance is the adjusted order distance. And then if the open cell count is greater than zero, then divide it by the order modification factor. And then select between these two, whichever one is the bigger one. And then the modified price, we change it to whatever is the current bid minus the distance. So we have that much gap. And the order modified the stop loss is going to be either the current sell stop-loss if there is an open position or otherwise take the modified price plus the calculated stop-loss which is the user provided 10 multiply by the spread and then check if if either there is no open position or if the modified price turns out to be less than the average sell price and that is not equal to the open price and that the difference between the two is bigger than the minimum freeze distance required by the broker. Then in that case modify the order by sending the ticket number, the modified price and the modified stop-loss. The same TP as calculated above with so with no specified time and no expiration and we store the value of the current time into the last sell order time because that is the last time that we have touched the sell order. So this was for modification of the stop orders which are sitting on the on the broker server. Now we go and see if there are open positions. So we check for the open positions now. So again with the same loop we're going to loop through all of the positions. Select them by index. If it is not our symbol and if it's not our input input magic number then continue meaning exit the function. But if it is our symbol and our input metric number then in that case get the ticket number get the type get the open price stop loss and DP exactly the same way as when we were modifying the uh orders and then if the type is buy we create a variable by the name price move which is going to be equal to whatever is the bit price now minus the open price plus the commission per pip so that we can get the actual amount of movement in profit. And then we create another variable by the name trail distance. And here we're going to calculate the trailing stop-loss by creating a function below. And let's create that function now where we're going to send the price move data to this function. The minimum stop distance that we have calculated above. Trailing stop active base trailing stop and trailing stop max values and then if the max distance equals to zero then return whatever is the active distance versus the minimum distance whatever is the bigger of the two. Otherwise create a variable by the name ratio and then we take the price movement like how much is the price moved by and divide it by the max distance and then double and then create another variable by the name dynamic distance where we're going to say active distance active distance minus the base distance times the ratio which is calculated here plus the base distance is what we are going to store here and then we're going to return whichever is the minimum of this or this here and then compare that to the minimum distance this one and select whichever one is the bigger one of the two. So that's going to give us the distance for the trailing stop. So then we can modify the stop loss by saying whatever is the current price minus this trailing distance which we have just calculated. And then the trigger level is going to be whatever is the open price plus the commission per pip plus the trailing stop increment that we have calculated above. And then if the bid minus the trigger level whatever is the trigger level is bigger than the trading distance and the stop loss equals zero meaning that there is an error though there is no stop loss there or that the current bit minus the stop loss is bigger than the trailing distance. So it has moved by more than how much we wanted to move by and the modified stop loss the value which comes back here is not the original stop-loss of the order. So in that case modify that position by modifying the stop-loss by sending it the modified stop-loss value. And then we can do the same for the sell positions by saying that if it is a sell type then the price move is going to be equal to whatever is the open price minus the ask value and minus the commission per pip. And then the trailing distance and the trading distance we're going to calculate here by sending the value of the price move which we get here. minimum stop distance from above, trailing stop loss active. And we calculate it exactly the same way as for the buy positions and then our modified stop-loss is going to become that trailing distance which has come back from this function plus whatever is the ask price currently and plus because the sell stop has the stop loss, sell orders have the stop losses above. And then the same criteria for checking here as well which is that the trigger level minus the ask price is bigger than the trail distance that we have calculated here also that the stop loss is either zero so it's not calculated the position is missing a stop loss or that the ask that the stop loss which the position has minus the current ask is bigger than the trailing distance which we have calculated here. So the position has moved down more than the trailing distance which we have calculated and the modified stop-loss here is not equals to the original stop loss because otherwise why are we sending the order. So then in that case we modify the position by sending the ticket number and the new modified stop loss that we have calculated and keeping the original TP. So this is how we're going to modify the open positions. This is how we were modifying the open orders. Now we go to actually sending the orders. But before that, we opened this for loop here, which doesn't have a closing parenthesis. So I'm going to put a closing parenthesis here just to make sure that we have balance parenthesis. And if I compile, I do not have any errors. But guys, I'm copy pasting from my already written EA. In your case, you should probably be hitting the compile button after every two lines so that you can get the error as soon as it happens. So you know that it is in this line or this line. So now we move on to the last part of actually sending the sell and buy orders. And what we're going to check is two things and I'm I'm going to start here. So if because this is an or statement. So either this is true or this is true. So if there is no open buy count meaning that there is no open buy position then we continue. Alternatively if the order modification is more than one and the total buy count is less than one and now total buy count is coming from here and here we were saying that as long as the stop loss was below the price. So even if there is a position open here, even if there is a position open, but there is still the additional stop-loss. So the price has not moved above and the stop- loss has not yet started to trail. And then if we have a better price, meaning the price comes down actually instead of moving up and we get a better price, then the total buy count is still zero. And in that case we will also proceed and then we will check if there is no pending buy count and that is coming from here which is if there is a buy stop already then there is a pending count plus+ as well. So there was a position there can be situation where there is an open position but the position's original stop-loss is still below the price meaning it hasn't moved yet. So, we haven't started the trailing and we haven't put another order yet. In that case, the total buy count is still zero. And if it is still zero, we're checking that the pending buy count is also still below one, meaning there isn't an active buy stop order. In that case, we check again if the spreads are okay, which is basically average spreads are equal to or less than max allowed. And we again check if the time is okay by checking the broker time hour meaning what's the time what's the hour time now on the broker server is less than the start is greater than the start hour and less than the end hour so it's within the trading range. So if both of these bulls are okay and this is what we're checking here that if this is true and this is true and the current time minus the last time we sent an order is more than the minimum order interval which we calculated based on the amount seconds provided by the by the user and the EA flag mode is zero. So the default mode so it's not anything else. Then we do a lot size calculation which is if the lot type is zero and remember that enum that we created the top fixed lots was zero and everything else was a percentage of either the margin or the equity or the or the balance. So if it is zero if the lot type is zero then the calculated lot size are going to be the math ceiling. So round it up. Fixed lots divided by the lot step size multiply by the lot step size and then we compare between the minimum lot size available by the broker versus whatever is coming out of the calculation and take the maximum or the mathematics meaning take the higher of those two thereby enforcing a minimum lot size. else if the lot type is greater than zero meaning it is one of these three then in that case I'm going to use my normal regular calc lots uh function that I use almost in every EA to by sending it the stop-loss value in points and here we can then create that function and you know this function from all of the other EAS that I have shared so far but I'll quickly run through it. So we send the stop-loss in points like what's the distance between entry and stop-loss. Then we start with lot size as minimum. We get the account balance, account equity, account fee margin because these are the three types that can be. Then we start with risk as zero. And then we say switch the lot type. So switch this variable the enum that we have created here and if it is zero then lots equals to fixed lots. So return the just the lots. If it is one then we're talking about account balance. So it's going to be multiplied by the risk percentage divided by 100. If it is case two and we break because once it has done this it should break this switching. do not go to case two and case three. But then if it doesn't find case one then look for case two and if that's case two then it is equity balance here. So in that case it's equity balance multiply by risk percentage and if it is case three then it's free margin multiply by risk percentage divided by 100. Then depending on which case it was there's going to be an absolute risk amount which is going to come out. Then we get the tick size value and lot step. And then we can calculate the money per lot step by dividing the SL points that we are sending dividing it by tick size tick value and lot step. And then the lots are going to be whatever is the risk value that comes out in absolute divided by the calculation here times the lot step. And then just as a precaution we get the minimum volume, max volume and volume limit just to check that if the volume limit is not zero meaning there is a requirement by the broker of the volume limit then then our loss calculation is either below it otherwise we go with volume limit. If the max volume is not zero that means that there is a restriction on max volume. In that case again math minimum between whatever is the m whatever is the max volume allowed by the broker and the lot size that's been calculated and in case there the minimum volume here is not zero that means that broker has a minimum volume in that case take the math max between or take the higher of the either the lot size that we have calculated or whatever is the broker's minimum. So just to make sure that we are within the range provided by the broker and in that and then normalize the lots to two decimal values and return the lots. So here we're using that function calc lots by sending it the stop-loss calculated value from before and asking for the calculated lot size in case if the lot type is bigger than zero. So it's either balance equity or free margin as a percentage. After that we just quickly check if the margin required to send this order is within the leverage and the margin which is available where we start with creating a new variable margin required calling it zero and we get the ask value and then we use the function order calculate margin telling the system that it's a buy stop on this symbol based on these lot size that has come out of here. This is the ask price currently and store the value that comes out of this calculation into this variable that we have started here. So we get this calculation and if that calculation returns a true meaning it's successful in calculating and the account balance or free margin is currently more than the margin required which has come out here then in that case we are good to go. So we calculate the order distance based on adjusted order distance and whatever the freeze distance minimum freeze distance that the broker requires. So the maximum or the bigger of these two using the math max function and then comparing whatever comes out as a result here versus the minimum stop distance that we have calculated before as a math max. So, whichever one is the bigger of the two versus the freeze and then versus minimum distance. And then the order price is going to be whatever is the ask price plus the order distance point because we're going to place the stop order above the price. It's a buy stop order. And the order stop-loss is going to be a function of if there is already an open position then whatever is the stop-loss of that position versus if there is no position open currently then it's going to be order price whatever we sending the order as minus whatever is the lot size what minus whatever is the calculated stop loss that we have calculated before based on the input provided by the user and normalizing it to the number of digits. So now we have our distance price and order stop-loss. So we can send the order and I'm using the trade uh C class that we have already created and using the order open function sending the symbol value. It's a bias stop. This is the lot size that we have calculated here. The order price has come out of here. The order stop loss has come out of here. The takerit is practically zero. I mean it's a new order take profit but it's a zero value up here. wherever we have defined the where we have declared the takerit but it you could potentially put a number here as well if you want to set a TP so that's a takerit uh no specified time no expiry and the common text which is the Mr. carefree at this point in time and then if it is successful in opening the trade because this is why we're using the if command. So if this function returns a true meaning it executes then in that case the last by order time is the current time and the last order time is also the current time and now I'm going to close all of the parentheses that are open. And if I compile now I do not have any errors. And then exactly following the same logic but in reverse for the cell trades we start with if the auto modification factor is greater than one and the total cell count is less than one. That's the first condition. So once again the total cell count is a function of if there is an open position and the stop-loss is still above the price meaning that the position is still in loss. So it's still the original stop-loss. So it hasn't moved it hasn't started to trail. In that case we increase the sell cow or if there is an order or if there is a sell stop order on the server in those conditions going to be one. So as long as the first position that we have as long as we have placed the first stop order and it has triggered but the original stop loss hasn't started to trail in that case the total sell count is still less than one. So it's still zero or and there's the second condition that there is no open position currently. So either of those two and if that is true then check that there is no pending order as well because if this was true. So just to make sure that we haven't already place another sell order and if that is true let's get these two pools to check whether the spreads are okay and the time is okay. And then we check that the spreads are okay and the time okay is returning a true and the current time versus whenever we place the last order is bigger than whatever the user has specified in that calculation and EMA flag is zero. So nobody has changed it because you could put it in a in a flag one for whatever reason because you don't want to trade but you want to debug for example. So you can put it to one and in that case all of the calculations will work but the orders are not going to be sent. So if the EMF flag is zero and then once again if the lot type is zero meaning fixed then we use the fixed lot size and compare with the and compare the fixed lot size that's coming out of here comparing it to the minimum lot size required by the broker to enforce the minimum otherwise if it is one of the other three then in that case use the same function here to calculate the lot size based on account balance, equity or free margin depending on whichever is the choice. Then like above we check the margin required starting at zero getting the bid value now because we're going to check for the sell stop and then we calculate the margin by using the sell stop providing the symbol lot size and bid and ask the system to return the value into this variable margin required that we have created and if that is successful then check that the account free margin is bigger than the margin required and if that is true. Then we get the order distance exactly the same way as for so buy order price but this time bid minus the order distance because we're going to place the order below the price and then the order stop-loss if there is an open position already then in that case use the then use the stop-loss of that position otherwise calculate it as orderly plus the calculated stop- loss because the stop loss is going to go above of the order price and then we can send the order which is again trade open trade order open sending the symbol sell stop based on calculated lot size order price from here using the bid using this order stop-loss new takeprofit which is zero but you could have placed a uh position but in case if you place it then it needs to be a calculation of what's the current price minus that new order. So you're going to go bid minus the new order take profit then no specified time for the order no expiry and order comment and then if this is successful then in that case last sell order time is updated to current time and last order time is updated to current time as well and I'm going to close all the opening brackets just to make sure that yes this one is matching this one. So we close all of the brackets and if I compile I do not have any errors. So this is it for the coding of the EA as I received the original EA in a very very obscure uh code from that friend of mine. Now I'm going to be running tests on this over the next two weeks. I will definitely be making some changes because for example during the video that I made already. I thought that the new orders or the additional orders are placed once the trade moves into profit. So we're scaling in to profitable trades. But what I see now when I'm going through the course and cleaned it up, what I see now is that the orders are not placed once the trades are in profit. they are placed while the stop loss of the original buy order is still the original stop-loss. So if the trade has triggered but the trailing hasn't started, we place another order. And I would like to see what will happen if we switch it from that configuration to only placing the orders if already all of the positions open are in profit. So properly scaling in. So those kind of modifications and stuff I will probably be going through all of the testing and seeing what what can I change and then probably in a week two weeks time once I have made the modifications that I want to make to this year I will come back and share the modification course as well. Meanwhile guys I mean all the codes are there now and some of you are very good coders as well. So try your own modifications and do post a comment if there is something that you find with which makes the EA perform a little bit better. Now the other thing is I will I will convert this into MT4 as well. The original live test that I broadcast 2 weeks ago that was on the original original code that I received from the friend. So it was MT4 based. So I will be running that test again as well but trying to do it in MT5. The problem with MT4 was that my broker's minimum lot size on US30 on in MT4 is one lot size and I don't want to go into the real account testing with a one lot size especially when it trades like 30 trades in a minute. On MT5 the minimum lot size is 0.1 which is more manageable. So I will be trying to max the settings perfectly and then try and do the test in MT5. uh if I find something useful, I will live broadcast it as well. And hopefully in the next two to three weeks, once I have done my side of the testing and found some modifications, I will come back and update uh in a video all of the modifications that I make to this EA and I will update the files in the store as well once I do the modification. So until next time guys, stay safe and trade